# RecommendorSystem
Movie Recommender Algorithms 

# Non-Personalized Recommender Systems 
For building non-personalized recommenders, summary statistics, ranking, score, and demographics are some the attributes considered to make recommendations. Some of the approaches for filtering include TFIDF, ranking by term overlap, and ranking by term frequency. I have learned how to build different algorithms and asses their advantages/disadvantages in terms of relevance, domain application, and scalability. Some of the non personalized algorithms I have built include the hacker-news time sensitive algorithm, popularity ranking, +4 star ratings, mean ratings, product association, as well as finding the similarity distance between item vectors. I have also learned how to make an error analysis for movie ratings, and filter by reliable recommendations based on the lower bound of a %90 confidence. 

# Content Based Filtering
Content-Based filtering uses explicit content attributes such as keywords, genres, titles, and meta-data in order to make recommendations. I have learned about the mathematical theory behind building a user profile (taste) vector from the various items they have rated in order to measure the relevancy with other items and make recommendations. I have also learned about different methods of calculating the user-profile and their advantages/disadvantages. Finally, I have built a content based filtering algorithm using Python and Pandas to recommend movies from the Movie Lens Dataset. 

# Memory Based Collaborative Filtering
Memory based collaborative filtering is broken into two different methods: item-item, and user-user collaborative filtering. For each method, the target user or item finds the nearest k neighbors with the most similar taste and then aggregate their ratings of items to estimate ratings and finally make recommendations. I have learned the mathematical theory behind calculating the neighbor similarity by using the pearson correlation, as well as calculating the weighted ratings relative to the similarity, and normalizing all the aggregates to estimate the final rating. I have also learned about the computational limitation of these algorithms, since the run time increase rapidly with each additional user and are thus not scalable. I have also learned about the advantages/disadvantages between item-item and user-user methods. Lastly, I have build a user-user and item-item collaborative filtering algorithms using Python and Pandas to recommend movies from the Movie Lens Dataset. 

# Evaluation and Metrics
I have learned about the importance of evaluation and metrics to measure the accuracy of different recommender algorithms as well as use different partitioning techniques to create training and test data sets. The data evaluation methods compare recommendation predictions from the training data with the test data, and do so in different way including Mean Absolute Error, Mean Squared Error, Root Mean Squared Error, and Average Error. I have also learned about the confusion matrix, calculating the F score, and the ROC curve. Finally, I am in the process of finishing an evaluation algorithm to compare Content Based Filtering, Item-Item and User-User Collaborative Filtering in making movie recommendations using the Movie Lens Dataset. 

# Movie Lens Database
I have learned how to access, and manipulate the Movie Lens Database in order to study the data and compare different recommendation methods. The dataset includes 20 million ratings, 465,000 movie tags applied to 27,000 movies by 138,000 users. The dataset also includes imdb movie ids, movie titles, and release dates. 

# NRC Emotions Lexicon on Movie Reviews
I have formulated a hypothesis that movie reviews include relevant emotions data that can be used to make recommendations based on emotions. To test my hypothesis, I have built an algorithm using Scapy to scrape 25 reviews per movie from IMDB. The Movie Lens Dataset includes IMDB IDs which can be used to effectively scrape all movies in the dataset (16,000 movies) . Afterwards, I have used the NRC Emotions Lexicon on the data extracted from movie reviews for each movie in order to estimate the following emotions: fear, disgust, sadness, joy, surprise, trust, anticipation, and anger. 
